Cellular and Viral Genomes RNA-seq Analysis
The Kaposi’s sarcoma-associated herpesvirus (KSHV) is an important oncogenic virus previously shown to be neurotropic, but studies on neuronal cells infection and pathogenesis are still very limited. Here we characterized the effects of KSHV infection on neuronal SH-SY5Y cells by the recombinant virus rKSHV219, which expresses both GFP and RFP to reflect latent and lytic phases of infection. We demonstrated that infected cells have a faster growth rate and the KSHV infection can be sustained. Interestingly, the infected cells can transition spontaneously back and forth between lytic and latent phases of infections, producing progeny viruses but without any adverse effects on cell growth. In addition, transcriptome analysis of viral and cellular genes in latent and lytic cells showed that unlike other infected cell lines, the latently infected cells expressed both latent and most, but not all the lytic genes required for infectious virion production. The uniquely expressed viral genes by the lytic cells were mainly involved in the early steps of virus binding. Some of the cellular genes that were deregulated in both latent and lytically infected cells are involved in cell adhesion, in cell signal pathways and tumorigenesis. The downregulated cellular CCDN1, PAX5, NFASC and upregulated CTGF, BMP4, YAP1, LEF1 and HLA-DRB1 genes were found to be associated with the cell adhesion molecules (CAM), hippo signaling and cancer. These deregulated genes may be involved in creating an environment that are unique in the neuronal cells to sustain cell growth upon KSHV infection not observed in other infected cell types.

[Kong, Xiaohong and Li, Dongmei and Mansouri, Amirsalar and Kang, Guobin and Sayood, Khalid and West, John and Wood, Charles. 2021. "Bone Marrow Derived SH-SY5Y Neuroblastoma Cells Infected by Kaposi's Sarcoma Herpes Virus (KSHV) Display Unique Infection Phenotypes and Growth Properties." Journal of Virology (American Society for Microbiology Journals)](https://journals.asm.org/doi/10.1128/JVI.00003-21).

Our data is available on [GSE173342](https://0-www-ncbi-nlm-nih-gov.brum.beds.ac.uk/geo/query/acc.cgi?acc=GSE173342).
